[RM Ch3] Decoupling app from infrastructure (#2172)
cntt-n/CNTT: doc/ref_model/chapters/chapter03.md

* [3.8 Hardware Acceleration Abstraction](#3.8)
  * [3.8.1 Types of accelerators](#3.8.1)
  * [3.8.2 Levels of accelerator consumption](#3.8.2)

>   * [3.8.9 Decoupling Applications from Infrastructure and Platform with Hardware Acceleration](#3.8.9)

Reviewer: What is planned for 3.8.3, ...3.8.8? (Since you renumbered to 3.8.9)

Author: > What is planned for 3.8.3, ...3.8.8? (Since you renumbered to 3.8.9)

Please in #2051 scroll down to list "This was referenced x days ago".

Reviewer: OK. Was a bit hidden ;-)

<a name="3.8.2"></a>
### 3.8.2 Levels of accelerator consumption

<a name="3.8.9"></a>
### 3.8.9 Decoupling Applications from Infrastructure and Platform with Hardware Acceleration

> [Decoupling](https://github.com/cntt-n/CNTT/blob/master/doc/common/glossary.md#cloud-platform-abstraction-related-terminology) applications from hardware accelerator is normally accomplished using drivers that, if available, are preferred with standardised interfaces across vendors and their products, or if not available then through drivers specific to the vendor hardware device. Decoupling infrastructure software using standardised interfaces from hardware accelerator vendors is also preferred, and, if not available, is comparatively less of an issue by using one or few software infrastructure functions.

Reviewer: Decoupling software from vendors sounds a bit strange. Maybe remove "from hardware accelerator vendors". I guess the main point is the "standardised interfaces". 
End of the sentence is unclear.

Author: > 
> 
> Decoupling software from vendors sounds a bit strange. Maybe remove "from hardware accelerator vendors". I guess the main point is the "standardised interfaces".
> End of the sentence is unclear.

Yes. Now deleted "from hardware accelerator vendors" and reworded the second part.

> [Decoupling](https://github.com/cntt-n/CNTT/blob/master/doc/common/glossary.md#cloud-platform-abstraction-related-terminology) application from hardware accelerator normally goes through drivers that if available are preferred to be towards some interface standardized across vendors and their products, or if not available then through drivers specific to hardware device”. Decoupling infrastructure software from hardware accelerator is also preferred through standardized interface, or if not available is comparatively less of an issue for one or few software infrastructure functions than similar for many applications.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[Decoupling](https://github.com/cntt-n/CNTT/blob/master/doc/common/glossary.md#cloud-platform-abstraction-related-terminology) applications from hardware accelerator is normally accomplished using drivers that, if available, are preferred with standardised interfaces across vendors and their products, or if not available then through drivers specific to the vendor hardware device. Decoupling infrastructure software using standardised interfaces from hardware accelerator vendors is also preferred, and, if not available, is comparatively less of an issue by using one or few software infrastructure functions.
```

Taking advantage of RM and RA environments with common capabilities, applications can be developed and deployed more rapidly, providing more service agility and easier operations. The extent to which this can be achieved will depend on levels of decoupling between application and infrastructure or platform underneath the application:

#### 1. Infrastructure:

> - a) Application functionality or application control requires infrastructure components beyond RM profiles or infrastructure configuration changes beyond APIs required by RA. Generally, such an application is tightly coupled with the infrastructure which results in an [Appliance deployment model](../../common/glossary.md#cloud-platform-abstraction-related-terminology).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- a) Application functionality or application control requires infrastructure components beyond RM profiles or infrastructure configuration changes beyond APIs specified by RA. Generally, such an application is tightly coupled with the infrastructure which results in an [Appliance deployment model](../../common/glossary.md#cloud-platform-abstraction-related-terminology).
```

> - b) Application control using APIs required by RA finds node (already configured in support of the profiles) with required infrastructure component(s), and in that node using APIs required by RA configures infrastructure components that make application work. Example is application that to achieve latency requirements needs certain hardware acceleration available in RM profile and is exposed through APIs required by RA.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- b) Application control using APIs specified by RA finds nodes (already configured in support of the profiles) with the required infrastructure component(s), and in that node using APIs specified by RA configures infrastructure components that make application work. Example is an application that to achieve latency requirements needs certain hardware acceleration available in RM profile and is exposed through APIs specified by RA.
```

> - c) Application control using APIs required by RA finds node (already configured in support of the profiles) with optional infrastructure component(s), and in that node using APIs required by RA configures infrastructure component(s) that make application work better (like more performant) than without that infrastructure component. Example is application that would have better TCO with certain acceleration adapter but can also work without it.

Reviewer 2: TCO? Total Cost of Ownership?

```suggestion
- c) Application control using APIs specified by RA finds nodes (already configured in support of the profiles) with optional infrastructure component(s), and in these nodes using APIs specified by RA configures infrastructure component(s) that make application work better (like more performant) than without that infrastructure component. Example is an application that would have better TCO with certain acceleration adapter but can also work without it.
```

> - c) Application control using APIs specified by RA finds nodes (already configured in support of the profiles) with optional infrastructure component(s), and in these nodes using APIs specified by RA configures infrastructure component(s) that make application work better (like more performant) than without that infrastructure component. Example is an application that would have better TCO with certain acceleration adapter but can also work without it.

Reviewer: Do you really mean TCO? Maybe replace with performance.

Author: > Do you really mean TCO? Maybe replace with performance.

@ulikleber : I changed it to "cost/performance" how it is called in sections "3.4.1 Hardware Acceleration Resources" #2158 and "3.8.5 Fixed Function Accelerators" #2167 . Thanks

Reviewer: OK. Thx.

> - d) Application control using APIs required by RA finds general profile node without any specific infrastructure component.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- d) Application control using APIs specified by RA finds general profile nodes without any specific infrastructure components.
```

#### 2. Platform Services:

> - a) Application functionality or application control can work only with its own components instead of using defined Platform Services. Example is application that brings its own Load Balancer.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- a) Application functionality or application control can work only with its own components instead of using defined Platform Services. Example is an application that brings its own Load Balancer.
```

Taking advantage of RM and RA environments with common capabilities, applications can be developed and deployed more rapidly, providing more service agility and easier operations. The extent to which this can be achieved will depend on levels of decoupling between application and infrastructure or platform underneath the application:

#### 1. Infrastructure:
- a) Application functionality or application control requires infrastructure components beyond RM profiles or infrastructure configuration changes beyond RA-exposed APIs. Generally, such an application is tightly coupled with the infrastructure which results in an [Appliance deployment model](https://github.com/cntt-n/CNTT/blob/master/doc/common/glossary.md#cloud-platform-abstraction-related-terminology).

> - b) Application control using RA APIs finds node (already configured in support of the profiles) with required infrastructure component(s), and in that node using RA APIs configures infrastructure components that make application work. Example is application that to achieve latency requirements needs certain hardware acceleration available in RM profile and is exposed through RA APIs.

Reviewer 3: Do we have "RA API"-s? I think we do not, but we have API-s required by RA2.

Author: > 
> 
> Do we have "RA API"-s? I think we do not, but we have API-s required by RA2.

Changed. Thanks

- c) Application control using RA APIs finds node (already configured in support of the profiles) with optional infrastructure component(s), and in that node using RA APIs configures infrastructure component(s) that make application work better (like more performant) than without that infrastructure component. Example is application that would have better TCO with certain acceleration adapter but can also work without it.
- d) Application control using RA APIs finds general profile node without any specific infrastructure component.

#### 2. Platform Services:

> - a) Application functionality or application control can work only with its own components instead of using RA-defined Platform Services. Example is application that brings its own Load Balancer.

Reviewer 3: What are the RA-defined Platform Services?

Author: > 
> 
> What are the RA-defined Platform Services?

@CsatariGergely : Deleted "RA-" part and left "defined Platform Services". We don't have any in RA yet beyond very basic required to have RA to work. If I remember well, LB is being described in RM.
